# Chapter 1 Computer Networks and the Internet

[`<<`](index.md)


## The Network Edge

A *protocol* defines the format and the order of messages exchanged between two or more communicating entities, as well as the actions taken on the transmission and/or receipt of a message or other event.

The computers and other devices connected to the Internet are often referred to as *end systems*. They are referred to as end systems because they sit at the edge of the Internet.
End systems are also referred to as *hosts* because they host (that is, run) application programs such as a Web browser program, etc.
Hosts are sometimes further divided into two categories: 

  - clients and 
  - servers.

### 1.2.1 Access Network

The *access network* — the network that physically connects an end system to the first router (also known as the “edge router”) on a path from the end system to any other distant end system.
They are used in diff settings: 

  - home, 
  - enterprise, and 
  - wide-area mobile wireless.

Home Access: DSL, Cable, FTTH, and 5G Fixed Wireless

#### Digital subscriber line (DSL)

A residence typically obtains DSL Internet access from the same local telephone company (telco) that provides its wired local phone access. Thus, when DSL is used, a customer’s telco is also its ISP. Each customer’s DSL modem uses the existing telephone line to exchange data with a digital subscriber line access multiplexer (DSLAM) located in the telco’s local central office (CO). The home’s DSL modem takes digital data and translates it to high-frequency tones for transmission over telephone wires to the CO; the analog signals from many such houses are translated back into digital format at the DSLAM.
The residential telephone line carries both data and traditional telephone signals simultaneously, which are encoded at different frequencies:

- A high-speed downstream channel, in the 50 kHz to 1 MHz band
- A medium-speed upstream channel, in the 4 kHz to 50 kHz band
- An ordinary two-way telephone channel, in the 0 to 4 kHz band

Because the downstream and upstream rates are different, the access is said to be asymmetric.

#### Cable

While DSL makes use of the telco’s existing local telephone infrastructure, *cable Internet access* makes use of the cable television company’s existing cable television infrastructure.


### 1.2.2 Physical Media
## The Network Core


